hi my name is Maddie martini and I'm
from eastern illinois university's
graduate Dietetics program I'm working
in conjunction with the Eastern Illinois
for the bank to talk to you about using
pantry staples so what our pantry
staples these are foods that you can
keep right on hand right there in your
kitchen just in case you find yourself
needing to make something for dinner and
you don't have time to go grocery
shopping new pantry staples to happen
and include step rice canned tomatoes
canned beans canned tuna chicken our
vessel bro canola or olive oil onions
potatoes garlic salt and pepper and your
favorite dried spices so we figure the
best way to show you how to useful
pantry staples can be is to make
something with them and today we're
making on my favorites pasta fazool
pasta fazool our pasta fazool depending
on who you're talking to literally
translates to pasta and beads it's a
tomato-based soup using great flavors
like onion garlic and basil the pasta
fazool isn't your typical chili mac it's
a hearty stick-to-your-ribs naturally
vegetarian meal that you can customize
any way you want so let's get started
according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention keeping your
hands clean it's one of the most
important things you can do to avoid
getting sick and prevent spreading
illness to others
you're going to add a one to two
tablespoons of cold or room temperature
canola oil to a cold pot and we're going
to turn on the stove to just a little
over medium heat just so you can get
things heating up so I'm going to take a
spoon here and I'm going to take out
about about teaspoons worth of garlic
and i'm going to add it to the oil you
hear that sizzle gotta love it alright
so now we're going to add the onion
everything's just about turning so we're
going to give everything a stroke so
you're going to saute the onion for a
few minutes until it starts to turn
translucent and we add our Tomatoes both
of them are making sure you get every
last drop from those cans because it's
just your goodness alright so the tomato
it the tomatoes are bubbling at a pretty
good clip here they've been cooking for
about 10 minutes and now it is time to
add our feeds I'm just going to give a
stir first yeah baby alright so we're
gonna take our beans and what i have
here i have one can of pinto beans in
one can of great northern beans you can
use which any means you like great
northern beans are the traditional ones
that you'd use but if you like pinto
beans better feel free to use them as
long as beans are tender and you use two
cans of them all right now we're going
to add four cups of warm water
your turn thanks for medium high heat
all we have to hide and you can also put
your lid back on because it will trap
the heat Mara bring things to a boil
faster alright so now we're gonna add
the pasta to the pasta fazool there's
one and now you're going to reduce the
heat to a simmer and that means once
once something has come to a boil you
bring things down to a low heat let it
simmer uncovered for about 10 to 12
minutes or until the macaroni is cooked
our pasta has been cooking in our soup
for about about 10 minutes or so and as
you can see here it's absorbed a lot of
the a lot of liquid and it's become nice
and plump what you have is a big hearty
bowl of pasta fazool it's gonna have a
nice mix of beans and pasta and tomatoes
in it and it's going to be really thick
and your family's going to love it and
you can have that on your own anytime
you want to use a pantry staples again
pantry staples are things you can have
on hand at any time like onions like to
can tomatoes canned beans and pasta when
you're wanting to make it quick and easy
fast and delicious meal try and look
towards your pantry staples and you can
make a great wholesome meal for you for
you and for your family thanks so much
i'm maggie martini from eastern illinois
university's graduate Dietetics program